so the first step is we need to cut our
fabric down to the right size so to do
that we need to do a little bit of math
we're working with a 20 inch by 20 inch
pillow and we want to leave some room
for seam allowance on either side so
with your fabric fold it in half just
like it comes off the bolt from the
fabric store you want to take a ruler
and you want to measure 12 inches from
the fold of your fabric and you might
wonder why twelve inches well we want to
keep two inches of seam allowance on
either side of the pillow and since our
fabric is folded in half once we open
the fold we're going to be at 24 inches
so can take a water-soluble marker these
things are great they can draw on fabric
and they disappear with a little bit of
water and you want to take your ruler
and just measure the 12 inches and make
some lines to guide yourself oh is
measure from the folded edge you fold
your fabric up move it down okay now
once you have your line marked you're
just going to go ahead and cut right
down that line it's helpful to not have
your fabric hanging off the edge of the
table because it'll weigh your fabric
down and as you're cutting things might
shift a little so lay your fabric out
nice and flat and then go ahead and
start cutting on the line that you made
as you go you can just kind of roll your
pieces out if you're working on a
smaller table
also important as you're cutting if
you're cutting the way I am with the
fabric bunched up on one end as you move
it be very careful that you're not
accidentally cutting the bottom layer
here as you're going where you'll ruin
your project
perfect so you can take your excess
fabric and set it aside for another fun
project later we're going to simply take
our fabric and open it up and lay our
pillow on top and here you can see where
we have a little extra on either side
for our seam allowance now what you want
to do is take the fabric and fold it
over the top of your pillow so that it
hits about two-thirds to three-quarters
the way from one side of the pillow
you're going to take your other side and
wrap it going the other way to cover the
entire pillow now we want this raw edge
to be about the same spot about
two-thirds to three-quarters of the way
past the opposite side of the pillow but
because these edges are raw we want to
finish them so our pillow looks very
professional so we want to give an extra
two inches about on either side which
would be four inches total for turning
under our raw edges so we'll just
estimate about four edges and as you can
see with our yard and a half of fabric
we really don't have that much extra
left so if you want you can cut this off
where it's really not that big of a deal
you could leave it if you don't want to
cut it so that's it we've measured and
cut our fabric and now it's time to
finish off our raw edges